---
title: "Band gap"
date: 2019-10-22T05:08:50-04:00
category: DFT
tags:
  - Quantum Mechanics
  - DFT
  - Band gap
---

# Band gap

DFT: self-repulsion problem
Standard DFT (LDA, PBE, and Pw91) includes Self-Coulomb Repulsion artifact implicit in DFT.
The electron interacts with itself. This biases the QM toward extra delocalization of electron states to minimize the self-repusion.
As a result band gaps are usually 1 to 3 eV too small.
Thus CIGS and most III-V are predicted to have zero-bandgap (metals rather than insulators)

Empirical: add Hubbard U and adjust until get experimental value  
Problem: not useful for design  
Rigorous theory: GW calculate rigorous quasiparticle excitation spectrum using Green’s function (many-body perturbation theory)  
Problem: full GW: 10^4 cost of PBE G0W0 (non-self-consistent) 10^3 cost of PBE  

Hybrid functional: Including exact Hartree-Fock exchange into DFT functionals eliminates the Self-Repulsion Problem.  
B3PW with VASP ~1000 times the cost of PBE  because of using plane-wave basis set
B3PW with CRYSTAL 3.2 times cost of PBE from using localized Gaussian basis sets[1]  

B3PW91 with Crystal code is the best among hybrid functionals including B3LYP and HSE.[2]  
Mean absolute Deviation (MAD) for band gaps: B3PW91 (0.09 eV), B3LYP (0.19 eV), HSE (0.27 eV)  

Including Spin-orbit coupling (or splitting) is necessary.  

---
reference  
[Nature of the Chemical bond, W. A. Goddard III](http://www.wag.caltech.edu/home/ch120/Lectures/Ch125a_FA2015/Ch125-120-L23-bands-gaps-Nov25-11am-2015.pdf)  
[1] [Accurate Band Gaps for Semiconductors from Density Functional Theory, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2011, 2, 212](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jz101565j)  
[2] [Resolution of the Band Gap Prediction Problem for Materials Design, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2016, 7, 1198](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b02870)
